image::https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Qd2M4oBybyosylfTgPZ4gg.jpeg[[align="center"]

More and more people everyday are using Dark mode on their devices, me included.
The majority of people on macOS use Dark mode and almost half of the iOS and
iPadOS use that, that’s why you should implement it in your app from the very
beginning.

> How can I give the UI a particular color look when I’m in Light mode and
> another one when in Dark mode?

This is what I’m going to answer in this article using the newest SwiftUI
framework, rest assure that this will work on UIKit the same way.

== The How

Let’s first start by setting up the preview tool that the new Xcode gives us so
that it renders both Light mode and Dark mode.

Add this code to the bottom of your new project

```swift
struct ContentView_Previews: PreviewProvider {
    static var previews: some View {
        Group {
            ContentView().environment(\.colorScheme, .light)
            ContentView().environment(\.colorScheme, .dark)
        }
    }
}
```

On your preview tool now you should see two devices, the first one will display
you ContentView using Light mode, the other one beneath it in Dark mode, be
aware that the latter will have white fonts so if you don’t see anything shown
on the screen that is the reason.

As you can see Apple made some default behaviours when you activate Dark mode,
you’ll see that some Views will be displayed both in Dark and Light without the
need to write a single line of code but as you write more complex components
Apple’s default settings won’t fit your needs anymore. Moreover, what if I don’t
want that deep plain black when my application is rendered in Dark mode? What if
I don’t want that plain white when in Light mode?

== Custom Themes

Right now with my basic setup discussed above I get this

image::https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*Zqnc2mbLbqj0KMQBCqGR0Q.png[[align="center"]

Not really what I would expect from an application in Dark mode right?

I want the Dark mode version to have a lighter and softer black,0 Light mode
instead will stay white.

---

This problem can be easily tackled with Color Sets. Let’s mode into the
_Assets.xcassets_ folder and let’s create a new Color Set. You will be presented
with this

image::https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*S4v-pK2lEjWf0sK5eOdOcg.png[[align="center"]

Let’s rename it **backgroundColor** and in the attribute inspector pane on the
right let’s select Any, Dark in the Appearane dropdown. You will now see two
squares that contain the colors that will be displayed both in Light and Dark
mode.

image::https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*rsZk9q4D-N-2fTqYImjLEw.png[[align="center"]

Let’s select the Dark color that I’ve mentioned previously by selecting it in
the color picker and let’s move back to the code editor.

---

This last part is pretty straightforward. You now just need to give each view
that **backgroundColor** the same way you would normally do in SwiftUI, so you
embed the View in a `ZStack` that will contain a `Color("backgroundColor")` and
the View itself.

image::https://miro.medium.com/max/1400/1*JNLqEgCU4cURoFyu8J0tyA.png[[align="center"]

== Conclusion

As you can see it’s pretty simple to support Dark mode in the iOS and macOS
environment and Apple is highly recommending its developers to do so since, as
I’ve saind above, a lot of people is switching to the dark side for multiple
reasong.
