---
title: I'm Officially a GSoC 2023 Contributor
---

I'm super excited to annouce that my proposal for
https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com[Google Summer of Code 2023] has been
accepted and I will work with the https://www.torproject.org[Tor project] org.,
specifically I will design their **Network Status APIs** from the ground-up
(kind-of) using https://actix.rs[`actix_web`] and Rust.

The Tor Project is a non-profit organization that develops and maintains the Tor
network, which is a free and open-source software project that helps to protect
user privacy and security online.

Tor works by encrypting user traffic and routing it through a series of relays,
making it difficult for anyone to trace the user's internet activity back to
their physical location. This makes it an effective tool for protecting against
surveillance, censorship, and other forms of online tracking.

**The Tor network is particularly useful for journalists, activists, and other
individuals who need to communicate or access information securely and
anonymously. It can also be used by anyone who is concerned about their online
privacy and wants to avoid being tracked by third parties, such as advertisers
or governments.**

In addition to the Tor network, the Tor Project also develops and maintains a
number of related tools and services, such as the Tor Browser, which is a web
browser that allows users to access the internet through the Tor network. They
also provide resources and support for developers who want to incorporate Tor
into their own applications or services.

Overall, the Tor Project is a valuable resource for anyone who wants to protect
their online privacy and security, and it plays an important role in promoting
freedom of expression and access to information online.

I've been using Tor for at least 7 solid years and this was one of the driving
factors that got me interested in the project, being a privacy maniac myself
it's something that I've always wanted to contribute to.

Moving to the program itself, for those of you who don't know what GSoC is:

[quote]
--
Google Summer of Code is a global, online mentoring program focused on
introducing new contributors to open source software development. GSoC
contributors work on a 12+ week programming project with the guidance of mentors
from their open source organization.  During Google Summer of Code,
participating contributors are paired with mentors from open source
organizations, gaining exposure to real-world software development techniques.

Contributors will learn from experienced open source developers while writing
code for real-world projects! A small stipend is provided as an incentive.

Participating organizations use the program to identify and bring in new,
excited developers. Many of those new developers will continue to contribute to
their new communities and open source long after GSoC is over.
--

I applied for GSoC back in March, it's usually a bit late to apply because in
order to maximize your chances you should start to interact with the community
~1-2 months before submitting your proposal and/or contributing with PRs to
current projects. But I had nothing to loose and I really wanted to work on this
project and be part of this big open-source community, so I spent 3 days working
on this document full-time and submitted a PR to another project that my mentors
were working on. That turned out to be time super well spent! So, next year, if
you're unsure about submitting your proposal, remember that it's never too late.

If you're interested in the proposal I submitted and everything that concerns
the project, you can find it
https://mattrighetti.com/assets/docs/gsoc2023.pdf[here].

I will try to keep you posted during this journey and talk about what I learn
during the process, but I'm super excited to work with Rust and `actix_web` but
mostly to be a contributor of Tor Project which is vital for so many people all
around the world!
