---
title: "GSoC 2023: Week 1"
image: "https://mattrighetti.com/assets/images/gsoc-thumb.jpg"
show_patreon: false
---

Since I'm trying to write more and more, I decided to try and commit to keep you
up-to-date with the progress of the project I'm working on for GSoC 2023.

This could be a nice opportunity for me to talk about the project, the tech
stack that I'm using and issues I'm going to deal with during the entire
journey. And also give you some little insights on the Tor Project, why not?

Let's start off by saying that community members try to keep discussions about
everything that concerns the project on publicly accessible channels:
communication happens mostly on IRC, specifically on https://www.oftc.net[oftc].

There are three main channels:

. `#tor-project` is the main channel where community members talk about the
  project in general

. `#tor-dev` where people talk about dev related topics

. `#tor-meeting` where each monday different teams at different time slots give
  updates on their progress on different projects

Each of those IRC channels is also mirrored on https://matrix.org[Matrix] if you
prefer that.

Week 1 is the so-called *community bonding* period, which is probably the best
thing that you can get out of GSoC accoring to a lot of people that did it in
the past (https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=35194002[see here]).

That's what I did, I spent this week getting to know my mentors and the Tor
Project itself, me and other GSoC mentees participated in a meeting where we
explained what we are going to work on and why. I've coded very little during
this period, it's not what you should do at this very stage really so I don't
have a lot to share about that.

Before leaving, I would like to talk a bit more about the project for those of
you who want a TLDR of the proposal that I linked last week in my
https://mattrighetti.com/2023/05/05/i-am-officially-a-gsoc-2023-contributor.html[article].

If you take a look at the https://metrics.torproject.org/rs.html#search[Tor relay
search] page, you can query a lot of different info about Tor relays and
bridges. That page uses the https://metrics.torproject.org/onionoo.html[onionoo]
protocol to get all the data about the Tor network.

The issue that the Network Status team is facing is that the data retrivial
process on the backend is very I/O bound since it works by creating files and
aggregating data from them in responses. This of course uses a lot of resources
and is slowing down the service. In order to solve this, a lot of the data in
those files are now being moved to a big Postgres instance so that the service
can scale accordingly to user demand. Not only that, but data is also going to
be pushed in a VictoriaMetrics timeseries database so that we can provide
historical data about relays and bridges.

The project I'm working on does exactly that: exposes APIs that will return data
queried from those two instances, hopefully making onionoo obsolete. We decided
to go for Rust and `actix_web` for the service framework because it's
https://www.techempower.com/benchmarks/#section=data-r21[one of the the fastes]
and reliable out there, both crucial factors in this case. I've used `actix_web`
a couple of times for simpler personal services before so I'm in no way an
expert of the framework but that's the very reason why I applied for this exact
project: learn more about `actix_web` and work with Rust, all of this
contributing to the FOSS community.

I'll see you next week with more updates.
